# Orbits-Project
For this project, I attempted to solve the Kepler Problem, which is an idealized version of the two-body problem. I planned to code and solve a differential equation with Euler and 4th-order Runge-Kutta methods to find the position of two bodies orbiting each other. After looking at many derivations and differential equations, all a little different, I decided to go with one from MIT.  Right off the bat, I got ahead of myself and attempted to start coding far too quickly. With the urging of my physics professor, I went back and coded very basic differential equations, working my way up from a 1D problem to 2D. Again, thinking I had all I needed to know, I attempted to solve my original differential equation in polar coordinates. Getting disastrous results, I realized I needed to go back a truly understand the theory of what I was trying to compute. My computational project turned into a mostly theoretical one. I felt comfortable with Euler, but Runge-Kutta was a different beast. For weeks, I simply studied the method - no coding. When I felt that I understood the method well enough, I took a different approach in coding it, switching to Cartesian coordinates. To do this, I started with Newton’s Second Law and derived a differential equation to solve for the x and y coordinates. I then coded the corresponding Euler and Runge-Kutta functions, which were much nicer and cleaner than their polar counterparts. I had some success with the Euler code, obtaining actual (albeit unrealistic) orbits. The Runge-Kutta code, on the other hand, output very few orbits. With both codes, I was unable to use realistic values for mass, the gravitational constant, velocity and time. This might be due to the fact that I used an open-source kernel that couldn’t handle such large computations. I also ran into problems with getting my functions to work with each change in the values of the parameters and ended up copying and pasting my function many times over. Ideally, I would like to be able to input different values without worrying if the functions would work. This is certainly something I could go back to and fix in the future. At any rate, I am happy that I was able to learn the numerical integration theory and successfully code Euler and Runge-Kutta functions.
